Let's try to see this in action.
Okay, so in background.js, now I think
I have another one media.js, okay?
So, here I have already
a background audio playing.
So if we look at the HTML,
in the HTML I have
a video element and an audio element.
This is HTML.
Okay, nothing really fancy,
but using JavaScript and
these APIs,
I can actually add all the metadata.
So that's the change.
For example, when I'm playing,
I hear there is an open
source royalty free song,
so when I'm playing so
in the bottom play,
I want to add the metadata.
So that metadata will let me
using the media session API,
will let me in the background
interact with OS, okay?
So from here for example,
in my Btnplay, before or
after the play doesn't
matter in the event handler,
so I'm going to talk with the
navigator.media session.metadata option.
And I'm going to create
a new media metadata.
There is a constructor for that,
that receives an object with all
the properties that I have to set.
There are three mandatory properties
title, artist and artwork.
You need to provide those three at least.
There are more properties that might
be used or not or might be ignored.
So for example in this case
the title is too much funk.
That's the name of the song.
Then we have the artist,
this is the real artist, Steve Oaks.
The album we could say, well,
I don't need the quotes here,
that this is Fronted Masters
greater hits maybe.
And for the artwork,
it's actually an array of images
that is following the same format as
in the web app manifest for PWAs.
I'm not sure if you have
that object in mind, but
actually it has source
with the URL of the image,
type And sizes.
Oops, so that's the structure, okay?
So I do have an E mash.
It's media thumb dot png, okay?
So I'm going to use that one.
So it's media, from png.
The type is image png, and the size is,
if I remember correctly, it's 800 by 800.
So you can provide many, and each OS
will pick the one that it prefers, okay?
So there are no standard icon sizes here,
so every OS will just take
wherever you provide.
So again, this is just metadata, and
over the same object I could also
listen for JavaScript actions.
So then while you are in
the background from
the watch you can do
something in JavaScript.
Makes sense?
You have a question face, I'm not sure.
>> And then thinking about like the other
ways that you can interact with that, so
then like I think also like Siri and
other voice assistants can then
interact with that media session.
>> Yeah, yeah, that's correct,
so both assistants they
are connected to those as well.
>> That's very interesting that if
you're like streaming it to one of
those speakers you can then
interact with your voice to have.
You can navigate through
part of your JavaScript.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just thinking of the weird
things you could probably do with that,
like if you go backwards,
it actually moves down the page.
>> Yeah,
also let me increase the weirdness there,
you could stream that
if it's video it's only
also you can stream that
to Google cast device or
Apple TV and
also you can use your remote control.
So from your remote control you could
be actually executing JavaScript.
>> And the homepods can hook
up to an Apple TV if you use
the Siri on the homepod is
gonna go to your Apple TV,
which goes to your phone
which controls a website.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is very very strange.
>> I actually could be someone on
a television program that you're watching
that says, remote execution attack,
>> Exactly, so
now you have a remote, boys,
child scraping checking attacks.
>> You could like use the seek function
to scroll through your page and
do percentage of the way through
your song is how much of
your website you're scrolled down to,
and have the worst website possible.
>> That's what I want.
>> Well, let's see this in action.
Let's see if that works.
So I did that on the audio plane,
is this one,
so if I hit play, we have the song.
And on the OS you can see here,
too much funk, okay?
With the front and
master logo, so that works.
And if we run this on the phone I
can show you that later if you want,
it works also on the watch shaft by
sending metadata, and that also works.
Even if I minimize this, I'm not actually
seeing that I can still play in that.
I remember that plays not just
playing the audio element,
it executing the JavaScript event handler,
and you can do wherever you want there,
not just working with the audio
that you're hearing, okay?
Make sense?
So again, this is new in the JavaScript
in the background space.
This is actually compatible
now with every browser, and
it happened within the last year.
It works on Safari also, so it works on
Android, on IOS, on iPad OS, and desktop.
Make sense?
About Picture-in-Picture,
we do have a button here that
toggle Picture-in-Picture, but
it's doing nothing right now.
So I'm going to add the code.
If I wanna directly start
Picture-in-Picture,
I can get the element by ID or
by tag name or directly.
Our new friend queryselector.
I can take the video element,
I have only one.
It just request Picture-in-Picture.
It's just that fancy,
so it's pretty simple.
And of course I can do the toggle thing,
so it gets in or out.
Well, I think it's minimized, it's.
So if I hit Toggle immediately,
even if it's not playing,
it goes to a window.
It's as simple as that, and
if I want this to be toggled,
you can see my window is there, okay?
I should check if in the document,
we have the Picture-in-Picture element.
And if it's there, it's because we
are already in Picture-in-Picture.
So we are going to exit
Picture-in-Picture.
And if not, we are going to
request Picture-in-Picture.
This is going to toggle.
Make sense?
It's as simple as that.
Any question?
So toggle, toggle, gets in, get out.
Of course the user is in charge also, so
you can actually hit
the exits Picture-in-Picture.
>> So this Picture-in-Picture will
be available even if you move from
one tab to another tab.
>> Yeah.
So it's even if I minimize,
let me toggle this.
Even if I minimize the browser or
if I go to another app,
it's always there,
running in the background.
In this case is, is it running JavaScript?
Not in my case, but
it could be running JavaScript as well.
In fact, the code that generates each
frame of the video can be JavaScript.
>> Is this still having
the throttle issues or it will run?
>> No, because when you are rendering
media playing in the background,
your timers are not being
throttled in the same way.
So you have the same power, the same
abilities as if you're in the foreground,
because you need to provide enough
data to keep the frame rate.
So the browser is giving you more power.
Of course can you abuse that?
Well, the user is seen
the Picture-in-Picture, so it's difficult.
Can you cryptomine?
Can you do cryptomining with this?
You can, but the user will see
something that means you need to
entertain the user while you're
doing cryptomining with something,
because if not the user will close it.
And if it closes it goes back to normal.
So we request Picture-in-Picture
to the video element and
we're requests exit in
Picture-in-Picture to the document.
>> If you said this is added
u all videos automatically?
>> It depends on the browser but, yeah.
In that case, it depends on the browser
but if the browser like Chrome for
example is adding that if
you're in probably macOS.
So if I go back to the tab,
where is my tab?
It's minimized.
There is a menu here, so
it's always here in the drop down menu.
Maybe Safari.
So there is one.
Yes, Safari.
Safari is the one that is giving
you the icon there no matter what,
even if you're not adding any JavaScript.
So Safari works in the same way.
Okay, so this is the one of
the biggest background execution
rules that has nothing to
do with service workers.